HRI 2015 Full Papers

Reviews of submission #2189: "How Children Perceive and Interact with a
Robot that Behaves Unexpectedly"

------------------------ Submission 2189, Review 4 ------------------------

Reviewer:           primary

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

Summary of (Theme-specific) Contributions

   This paper explores the impact of unexpected robot behaviors on
   engagement and perceptions of anthropomorphism by children. It utilizes a
   new scenario involving robot-mediated play between two children to
   generate qualitative and quantitative data.

Meta Review

   Strengths:

   All three reviewers saw potential in this work.

   Aspects of the study were viewed as novel and interesting (1, 3).

   Work in this area is challenging (1).

   The negative correlation between anthropomorphism and engagement is
   interesting (1). I agree with the authors that there may be two
   sub-groups within the population. For example, there appears there may be
   a positive correlation within the higher engagement group.

   Weaknesses:

   All three reviewers expressed concerns over the soundness of the
   analyses. These included some potential errors (2), concerns about
   inconsistent sample sizes (1, 2), coding methods (1), questions about
   statistical techniques (1, 2), and concerns about scoring methods and the
   anthropomorphism index (1, 3). 

   One reviewer questioned the index weights (1), which is especially
   important since the paper describing the index is currently under review.
   Another reviewer also expressed concerns about relying on this citation
   (3). While citing work under review does happen, there is special concern
   due to the importance of this citation to the work. 

   There were concerns about aspects of the experiment scenario and
   activities (2, 3).

   Two reviewers felt improvements could be made to the related work (2, 3).


   All three reviewers felt the presentation of the paper needed more
   attention.

   The authors should focus on improving a) the rationale for the methods
   and b) the findings and conclusions sections.

   Personally, I agree with the reviewer who perceived this paper as hastily
   prepared and written (2). I think this paper would have significantly
   benefitted from additional internal review and refinement. There is good
   material here to build from.

   I have some concerns about the strength of certain findings due to
   typical behaviors found in 4-5 year old children. Kids this age often
   have imaginary friends, assign anthropomorphic qualities to inanimate
   objects, and display other behaviors that could explain some of the
   qualitative results. I don’t think the paper’s data are inaccurate,
   but I recommend caution when discussing the implications of the findings.

   I recommend using author names in addition to citation number when trying
   to say “[1] describe...” or “[13] found ...” I count at least
   four instances of this. This is done correctly for the Fink reference.
   Again, this suggests a hasty submission.

   Also, the font size for text in the graphs is too small.

Recommendation

   2  (Probably reject: I would argue for rejecting this paper.)


------------------------ Submission 2189, Review 1 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

Summary of (Theme-specific) Contributions

   The main contribution of the paper is a WoZ study in which pairs of
   children interact with the robot Ranger. The robot behaved unexpectedly
   in some cases (got lost, disobeyed or made mistakes) and this tended to
   increase engagement in comparison to a robot that always behaved as
   expected. The authors also hypothesized that the anthropomorphic
   perception of the robot and the amount of engagement in the interaction
   would positively correlate, but found the opposite ("the more a group
   showed engagement in an interaction, the less they anthropomorphized the
   robot"). While it is not clear why this happened, I think that this
   result is interesting and could potentially motivate further research on
   how familiarization can affect perceived anthropomorphism in young
   children.

Strengths and Weaknesses

   I think that the main strength of the paper is the study itself, since
   working with robots and kids is not easy. The domino activity is novel,
   and could motivate similar experiments to try to better understand
   children-robot interaction.

   While the paper is relevant for the HRI community, I am worried about the
   methodology that was used to analyze some of the data. For example,
   engagement is partly measured by how often a child looked at the
   experimenter "due to confusion caused by the robot". How did the
   experimenters decide why the children looked at the experimenter? Could
   have they been confused by the other child or some other aspect of the
   task rather than the robot itself? An alternative/complementary measure
   of engagement that might be worth looking at is the number of times that
   the kids were clearly disengaged from the task or were distracted by
   something else than the robot. Another way is to compute for how long the
   kids were orienting their heads towards the robot (measuring gaze
   patterns would be ideal but may be too hard for the experiment set up).

   It is unclear to me if the units (or the scale) of the points that were
   assigned to the different aspects of the anthropomorphism index are
   appropriate. Why does "agreeing that Ranger can be happy or sad" is twice
   as many points as "agreeing that Ranger can go out the door by itself"?
   Why isn't it 2.5 or 3 times more important? It seems to me like the
   choice of scale was arbitrary and that any other choice (even with the
   same order of importance between the items) could lead to different
   results. I strongly suggest improving the rationale in this respect.

   Also, some results in Section 3 are poorly presented. What statistical
   method/test was used to concluded that there was a "significant
   difference between the average of engagement actions carried out during
   the first 7 runs (...) and during the second 7 runs"? The authors also
   say that "the mean index of anthropomorphism in the three conditions
   varied, with the mistake and lost condition leading to a higher index
   than the disobey condition", but never present the actual mean values,
   nor standard errors or deviations from the mean. By how much did they
   vary?


Soundness

   My concerns were expressed in the Strengths and Weaknesses section of
   this review.

Related Work

   Related work is OK.

Presentation

   The paper flows nicely, but I'd suggest improving a few figures/tables.
   Why does Fig. 3 exclude "explore"? The text that references Fig. 3 in
   Section 2.3.1 does not provide any rationale for this omission. 

   Also, I'd suggest improving the presentation of the interview questions
   (Table 1). Which ones were asked after run 1.5 and after the whole
   experiment? Where they asked in the same order always? Where some
   questions skipped in certain cases? I suggest adding brief comments that
   address these questions to the caption of the table.

   The numbers in the right plot of Figure 6 sum up to 18, but there were 26
   kids. Did the remaining kids stay quiet when they were asked about "why
   is it not alright to leave Ranger alone?" ? If a significant proportion
   of kids did not answer many of the questions that were asked by the
   experimenters (it is unclear to me how many times the kids stayed quiet
   exactly), then maybe the style of the interview was not appropriate for
   the children. Maybe graphic scales (e.g., happy-sad faces) could have
   been better to elicit children's opinions?

   A few minor typos could be fixed as well:
   - missing comma "," after lost in first paragraph of section 2.2 (line 4)
   - extra ")" in last paragraph of section 2.3.2
   - seems like a word is missing at the beginning of the sentence: "Asked
   for more details, ..." in the first paragraph of the Emotions and
   Companionship section, as well as in the first paragraph of Moral
   Standing
   - "This is also reflected in *the* children's behavior" - second
   paragraph of section 3.3 (penultimate line of the column)

Suggestions

   I'd suggest improving the results section of the paper to make it clearer
   in terms of the design of the experiment and the analysis of the data.
   Also, I'd be careful with the conclusions drawn from the results. For
   example, the paper closes with "the data suggests that anthropomorphic
   perception does not automatically elicit engagement, but the contrary",
   but correlation does not necessarily imply causation.

Recommendation

   As mentioned before, the weaknesses could be addressed by improving the
   presentation of the experiment and the results. This includes providing a
   better rationale for the analyses that were conducted and, if possible,
   providing a few more quantitative results. As it is, I am worried about
   the soundness of the paper and its limited contributions. The only
   hypothesis that was supported was that unexpected robot behaviors can
   increase engagement, but this is not new - several related works have
   reported this effect. Besides, the authors claim in the abstract of the
   paper that this study "operationalizes for the first time the
   anthropomorphism index proposed by [6]", but [6] appears as "Submitted"
   in the references and is merely discussed throughout the paper. It is
   hard to judge if this is an important contribution without more
   information on [6].

Overall Rating

   2  (Probably reject: I would argue for rejecting this paper.)


------------------------ Submission 2189, Review 2 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Expertise

   4  (Expert)

Summary of (Theme-specific) Contributions

   This paper explores the anthropomorphic index of effectiveness in
   children and robot interaction to enhance children's experience with the
   robot repetitively. The main contribution of this paper is to study the
   impact of unexpected robot behaviours (got lost, disobeyed or made
   mistakes) on the perception of robot by children and their subsequent
   engagement in a playful interaction with WoZ method.

Strengths and Weaknesses

   Originality and Novelty: Authors studied the children and robot
   interaction to improve it without boredom under the assumption(get lost,
   mistakes,disobeying).

   Weakness:
   This paper is on Children and robot interaction which looks like a moving
   box.
   Not only behavior but also appearance may be contained to the
   anthropomorphic index. Authors should declare this how they considered
   only behavior without appearance faction when setting the hypothesis. 

   Authors assumed that the disobeying robot and the robot that makes a
   mistake will be more anthropomorphized than the robot that gets lost.
   However, some people think the robot that gets lost is more than those.
   How can authors persuade them with theoretical background studies?

Soundness

   In the section 2.3.1, authors should check some values. For example, they
   provided 92 actions but I can obtain 90.53 actions from 2354/26=90.53
   actions from section 2.3.1. 

   If I took your values, 92 actions, how 
   is the average action per minute? I can obtain 145 minutes/ 26
   children=5.57 minutes per child and 92 actions per child.
   And then I can calculate the average actions, 16.5, per child and per
   minutes from 92 actions/5.57 minutes per child. Finally 16.5 actions/14
   run= 1.17 actions for Average actions per child per minutes as we see the
   range of the vertical axis is 0~2.5. If my value 90.53 is right, the
   result is different. Which one is right??

   In Figure 3, authors give n=480, but n means the number of participants
   (n=26 in section 2.1). It may be confused to readers. I recommended
   authors use another variable name such as m. 

   Moreover,they should provided T-test between expected and unexpected
   behavior to test three hypothesises from Figure 3 for readers.

   In the section 3.1, why don't authors use X2-test not F-test?

    

Related Work

   There are some studies for avoiding  boredom in children and robot
   interaction. For example, calling name, appearance, and so on. Authors
   should declare the originality from them.

Presentation

   When I read this paper, it seems to be hastily prepared and written.

   In the first sentence of the section 2.2, authors provided a total of 14
   run. How long does it take per run? It would be helpful to be provided
   the average time per 1 run.

   It would be better to provide some tables for statistics in section 3.1.
   The descriptive sentences are confused to readers.

   It may be easy for reader to understand if the section 3 is consisted of
   testing three hypothesises. Due to hypothesis in section 1.2, the
   sub-sections of section 3 may seem to good presentation. 

Suggestions

   In Figure 7, it would be better if authors discuss the outliers (3
   points) as an in-depth discussion.

Recommendation

   While this paper has some weakness, it is interesting and meaningful. I
   think it needs to be re-structed and re-written to show sufficiently its
   contribution. When I read this paper, it seems to be hastily prepared and
   written.

Overall Rating

   2  (Probably reject: I would argue for rejecting this paper.)


------------------------ Submission 2189, Review 3 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Expertise

   4  (Expert)

Summary of (Theme-specific) Contributions

   The study is related to the "Studies" 

Strengths and Weaknesses

   This trial is original and interesting. However, the theoretical
   structure of the paper is not fine.

Soundness

    As an example of field work, this study provides interesting topic. 
   However, the results do not show strongly important findings.

Related Work

     I expected to find more citation to interactive robotics literature
   especially with regards playground concept for the children. 

   http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-07440-5_52

Presentation

    The organization of the paper is great, but the details and clarity
   could be improved.

Suggestions

   The proposed study explores the impact of unexpected robot’s behaviors
   on the perception of a robot by children in playful interactions. 

   Authors have to remove the split of paragraph and reference from the
   abstract. References should be change as Short at al [10] studied… 

   The study is used the anthropomorphism index which was proposed in the
   study of [6]. According to the references section, the study is just
   submitted to the Frontiers in cognitive science. Did author get the
   acceptance of the paper? If it’s not, how should we validate the
   anthropomorphism index? 

   Reviewer has some concern about the experiment setup; as pointed in
   section 2.1 “ A play mat with a river drawn on it is used as an
   imaginary barrier that only the robot is allowed to cross”. It’s
   difficult to understand this type of restriction in the play ground; what
   are the objectives of the restriction? In the experiment, every context
   was well defined to establish the interaction. Generally, reviewer has
   many experiences to deal with small children and using the natural setup
   & free-interaction (without restriction) context gives a more interesting
   interaction from the children. Please argue with my statement to improve
   the section 2.1. 

   In child-robot interaction, we can collect the variety of behaviors,
   responses, feedback etc as shown in Figure 3. How should we statistically
   validate those results to make a general conclusion for HRI community?
   Reviewer is wondering how authors got the feedback from questions based
   approach and how the approach was success (validity of children’s
   response). Reviewer can’t evaluate the anthropomorphism index, because
   it’s just contained the point system and we don’t have published work
   or study to validate this index.    

    Section 3 is dealing with number of answers given by students to
   validate entire concept; e.g misbehavior recognition and engagement. The
   approach just gives how many children were responded to the questions.
   Authors have to capture more interesting behavioral data to validate
   their study.  

   Paper is very well written and organized, but instead of considering the
   number of students as a statistics to validate the concept, behavior of
   children and robot feedback based connectivity should be bring into
   discussion to indicate the advantage of the study. 

Recommendation

   Although the paper has some weaknesses, they can be addressed by making
   the improvements as i suggested. 

Overall Rating

   2  (Probably reject: I would argue for rejecting this paper.)



